# Recommendations - Input images & videos

### OCR Input Images

* The minimum resolution of the input document image should be of 1024 x 768, as OCR requires more resolution to detect characters.  &#x20;
* The API requires images to be of sufficient size so that important features within the request can be easily distinguished. Sizes smaller or larger than these recommended sizes may work. However, smaller sizes may result in lower accuracy, while larger sizes may increase processing time and bandwidth usage without providing comparable benefits in accuracy.
* The preceding recommendation is based on the native resolution of the camera. Generating a high-resolution image from a low-resolution image does not produce the results needed for OCR (due to artifacts generated by the up-sampling of the image).
* Image size should not exceed 20M pixels (length x width) for OCR analysis.
* Each image size should be less than 2 MB.
* Use an image that is not obscured or tightly cropped.
* Use color images.
* Use images with flat lighting on the document, as opposed to varied lightings such as shadows and flashlights.
* Use images that are bright and sharp. Avoid using images that may be blurry due to subject and camera motion as much as possible.
* Avoid items that block the document text.
* Avoid documents containing background texts like newspapers, keyboards.
* Make sure the orientation of the document is correct
* Additional instructions will be provided in the respective sections.

### Face detection & recognition Input Images

The models used for face detection recognition operations are designed to work for a wide variety of poses, facial expressions, age ranges, rotations, lighting conditions, and sizes. We recommend you use the following guidelines when choosing images.

* Use an image with a face that is within the recommended range of angles. The pitch should be less than 30 degrees face down and less than 45 degrees face up. The yaw should be less than 45 degrees in either direction. We recommend yaw of fewer than 10 degrees in either direction.
* Use an image of a face with both eyes open and visible.
* Use an image of a face that is not obscured or tightly cropped. The image should contain the full head and shoulders of the person. It should not be cropped to the face bounding box.
* Avoid items that block the face, such as headbands and masks.
* Use an image of a face that occupies a large proportion of the image. Images, where the face occupies a larger portion of the image, are matched with greater accuracy.  \\
* Ensure an image is sufficiently large in terms of resolution. Signzy can recognize faces as small as 50x50 pixels in image resolutions up to 1920x1080. Higher-resolution images require a larger minimum face size. Faces larger than the minimum size provide a more accurate set of facial recognition results.
* Use color images.
* Use images with flat lighting on the face, as opposed to varied lighting such as shadows.
* Use images that have sufficient contrast with the background. A high-contrast monochrome background works well.
* Use images of faces with neutral facial expressions with mouth closed and little to no smile for applications that require high precision.
* Use images that are bright and sharp. Avoid using images that may be blurry due to subject and camera motion as much as possible.
* Make sure the orientation of the face is correct. Rotated faces might not work.
* Each image size should be less than 2 MB.
* Additional instructions will be provided in the respective sections.

### Input videos

*   Image Resolution — There is no minimum requirement for image resolution, as long as the face resolution is 50x50 pixels for images with a total resolution up to 1920x1080. Higher-resolution images require a larger minimum face size.

    &#x20;\- The preceding recommendation is based on the native resolution of the camera. Generating a high-resolution image from a low-resolution image does not produce the results needed for face search (due to artifacts generated by the up-sampling of the image).
* Camera Angle — There are three measurements for camera angle – Pitch, Roll, and Yaw.  &#x20;
* Pitch — We recommend a pitch of less than 30 degrees when the camera is facing down and less than 45 degrees when the camera is facing up.
* Roll — We recommend yaw of less than 10 degrees in either direction.  \
  \- Yaw — We recommend yaw of less than 45 degrees in either direction.
* The face angle along an axis that is captured by the camera is a combination of both the camera angle facing the scene and the angle at which the subject’s head is in the scene. For example, if the camera is 30 degrees facing down and the person has their head down a further 30 degrees, the actual face pitch as seen by the camera is 60 degrees. In this case, recognition would not be able to recognize the face. We recommend setting up cameras such that the camera angles are based on the assumption that people are generally looking into the camera with the overall pitch (a combination of face and camera) at 30 degrees or less.
* Camera Zoom — The recommended minimum face resolution of 50x50 pixels should drive this camera setting. We recommend using the zoom setting of a camera so that the desired faces are at a resolution no less than 50X50 pixels.
* Camera Height — The recommended camera pitch should drive this parameter.
* The codec should be h.264 encoded.
* The recommended frame rate is 30 fps. (It should not be less than 5 fps.)
* The recommended encoder bit rate is 3 Mbps. (It should not be less than 1.5 Mbps.)
* Frame Rate vs. Frame Resolution — If the encoder bitrate is a constraint, we recommend favoring a higher frame resolution over a higher frame rate for better face search results. This will ensure recognition gets the best quality frame within the allocated bit rate. However, there is a downside to this: due to the low frame rate, the camera will miss fast motion in a scene. It is important to understand the trade-offs between these two parameters for a given set-up. For example, if the maximum possible bit rate is 1.5 MBPS, a camera can capture 1080p at 5 fps or 720p at 15 fps. The choice between the two is application dependent, as long as the recommended face resolution of 50x50 pixels is met.
* Video size should not exceed 30 MB.
* Additional instructions will be provided in the respective sections.
